QUESTIONER: Hi.
So my question's really
if you look at, you know, back to FDR
executive order 6102
confiscation of gold
once this thing will happen
- and I think it will eventually happen -
what prevents the government, let's say
to take control of the exchanges
which basically store all the information, who has what
and then back to executive order 6102?
ANDREAS: Well, they can take over the exchanges.
They won't get much of the bitcoin
because all of you have learned from coming to these events
that you do not store your bitcoin
long-term on exchanges.
Your keys, your coins.
Not your keys, not your coins.
They may discover information about
who has used exchanges
and
maybe if you buy bitcoin on an exchange
they may come after you and ask you to
provide that bitcoin.
And what that will do is it will drive the entire economy underground
so you will no longer be able to use your bank accounts to buy bitcoin
but, guess what?
At that point, you can't use your bank account to buy bitcoin
because no one wants your stinking dollars anymore.
And at that point you have to do something else.
You have to start bartering for your services.
So you have to offer services or products that are useful to other people
and get bitcoin for those from the few of us
who got paid for our bitcoin and didn't buy it on an exchange
and still have some.
What it's also gonna do as soon as they do that
is it's going to increase the spread
between bitcoin and the national currency
- anywhere they do this.
As soon as you ban it, the spread increases.
When the spread goes to 25%,
who does that go to?
Who gets paid that 25%?
Whoever is able to inject bitcoin into the market
which becomes a fantastic motivator
for people to start smuggling bitcoin into the country.
Right?
And they will
just like has happened in Venezuela,
just like happened in India,
just like happened in all of these other countries.
So then the people who are smuggling
bitcoin into the country
which, really, you don't really need to smuggle bitcoin
because it's everywhere
so it's relatively easy to do.
They get a 25% premium.
And what do they use that 25% premium to do?
They widen the routes by which they've been smuggling money in
and try to bring more money in
and as long as that premium persists
that route keeps getting wider and wider and wider
and a bigger flow of money starts pouring in.
Right?
Because think of physics.
I don't know if any of you like physics.  I love physics.
Potential energy.
You've got a fantastic difference in potential energy
between the two sides of the border.
Right?
And that will cause bitcoin to flow downhill
into the area where it has a 25% premium
and until the two levels are equalized
it will continue to flow very, very fast.
The bigger the difference, the more it will flow
and the more you push it down
in the inside country,
the more you make the difference
and you drive flows in there.
So it will drive a giant underground market.
And, of course, at that point they have to enforce the law.
So, how can you tell if the
person who is enforcing executive order
'ban all bitcoin' who comes and knocks on your door
can be bribed or not?
Well, a good litmus test is if they take bitcoin
they're bribable.
So you start bribing them in the illegal currency.
Now, that may sound funny to you
but this is exactly what happened in Russia in 1984
- in the Soviet Union.
1984, they banned private ownership
of hard currency, foreign currency, like dollars.
Who were the first people to fill suitcases with hard currency?
The politburo.
The people who signed their name on the law.
Of course - right?
And then how did you know if the cop was bribable or not?
Well, if they take dollars
they're simultaneously committing two crimes :
currency crimes and bribery crimes.
If they're double the amount of criminal
you can probably trust them to engage in the conspiracy of
of allowing you to hold foreign currency.
So, now, all of the cops that were corrupt
started asking only for US dollars as their bribes.
Within a year
the amount of hard currency flowing into Russia
had quadrupled.
And this is what just happened in Venezuela.
And it's also what happened in India.
For the second time
- this has happened twice -
it happened with the Silk Road, it happened in India -
they just announced yesterday
the Bank of India is now investigating
a drug enforcement agent
who shut down a bitcoin drug ring
and then stole the bitcoin
and appropriated it for himself
which is exactly what happened with the Silk Road
when two DEA agents ended up stealing the bitcoin.
The siren call of hard money.
Irresistible.
What it does is it creates this enormous wave of corruption
and that wave of corruption will swallow everything.
So you can write the law, you can sign the law
but if breaking that law
or obeying that law is the difference between
I send my kids to the hospital,
I send my kids to school,
I feed my kids,
as it is in Venezuela,
no one gives a damn about the law
and nothing you can do to them will stop them.
And so, as a result, all it does is make a mockery of the law.
This happens in gradual stages, of course.
It doesn't happen all at once.
Let them confiscate the exchanges.
They're going to create exactly the premium
that's going to drive an enormous black market.
"Black market" is just another word for unofficial market.